---
layout: post
title:  "Revisiting 2013"
date:   2013-12-30 11:06:38
categories: blog
---

I am chilling out at my brother's house in Melbourne, recovering from a super extended vacations which is about to get over in a couple days.

2013 ended, it was special and was important to me personally as well professionally. There are some of things that I dreamt of doing a couple of years ago and ended up doing it, and there are some which are still distant dreams for me.

###Tasks Completed

The biggest thing that happened to me this was **my fling with Open Source Software**. I never wanted to work for money and needed my freedom to manage my academics as well. All these factors pushed me towards Open Source Software.

I was(and am) a Core Contributor to **ownCloud** and will **always be** in my free time.

I interned as a **Google Summer of Code Intern** with ownCloud (openSUSE) where I wrote some good amount of code with the best possible people around.

My first major onsite internship happened at **LinkedIn** as an Interaction Designer and Developer for May to July. It was again, very enjoyable.


###Tasks Yet to be Done

Sadly, I couldn't strt contributing to KDE-UX in terms of patches though I am still on their IRC channel reading conversations and giving suggestions. To start being more thorough, I need to setup KDE on my Virtual Machine (Mac). If anyone has a prior experience, you can help me out.

I also initiated contributing to the Diaspora Project, but since I am really *badass*, I fucked up my Mac default ruby binaries and was stuck for quite some time on fixing that. I am sure its fixed now, so some patches in the future, may be.

I still don't count myself as a **programmer** but an **API munching machine**. So, I am spending time reading about algorithms and coding practices.

Lastly and most importantly, **more** projects as an Interaction Designer. Some personal projects that I started back in May last year are still hanging and need attention.

###Personal Life Vs Professional Life

I don't really write much about my personal life on social media, but yeah, I was highly anti social for a major portion of 2013 considering the 2 internships.

The **caffeine** addiction (about **20-25** equivalent cups coffee a day) was important to sort things out.

The summers did teach me lesson in keeping ones personal and professional life separate. It's very difficult but possible, I tell you.

2014 will have me more focused on my fitness as this will be my last semester in college so really wish to make that count.

Talking about Acads, meh.

###High Hopes

It's been almost a week January started and in a couple of days, my final semester will start as well, so yeah, back to normal life.
