---
layout: page
title:  "Google Summer of Code 2013"
description: "2-3 lines of the abstract should be here."
date-start: 2013-05-15
date-end:   2013-10-01
frontmatter: "gsoc2013"
categories: Projects
---

Abstract
========

**Design and user experience unfortunately is still neglected in many open source projects. ownCloud aims to change that and get people involved in the design process. Currently, ownCloud lacks complete uniformity in the front-end of the User Management modules. All the modules have their own specific front-end independent from each other. The project plans to implement a common layout so as to make the user experience seamless and keeping the software modules consistent with each other.**

Collaborators
========
1. **[Jan Christoph Borchardt](http://jancborchardt.com)** - Design, Ideation
2. **[Arthur Schiwon](http://www.arthur-schiwon.de/)** - UI, backends
2. **[Raghu Nayyar](http://www.raghunayyar.com/)** - UI, Ideation

Problem Statement
========

The already implemented user management was one giant long list of all users, with no way to quickly filter. This slows down the process of searching users if they were present in large numbers (say, 5000 plus).

Ideation
========

The basic idea involved dividing the owncloud content area into 2 parts, the left content and the right content. Following are the initial ideas regarding both of them :-

## Left Content or App Navigation or Group List

1. The left content displays the list of groups (for example, designers, developers, sales, marketing, management, etc.) under which various users are seggregated.
2. The first row of the left content contains the "Add Group Button" which creates an empty group instantenously.
3. The second row contains the default or the preselected group, "Everyone" which displays all the users. Similarly, the third row contains "Admins" which display all the administrators and the group administrators on the user list.
4. Every list element has the count of users it contains displayed, if greater than 0.
5. Clicking any list element filters the users on the right content which makes it easier for the administrators to browse through a massive set of users.


## Right Content or User List

1. The right content displays the list of users with the administrators and sub administrators on top which are highlighted in a different background colour.
2. Thee user list contains its various properties like avatar, display name, username, storage, custom properties and the delete user button.
2. The first row contains the "Add User" button which displays the inputs for user name, password and a dropdown for selecting the group it belongs to.

[Here](https://github.com/owncloud/core/issues/1927) is the link to discussion on the GitHub issue tracker.

Initial Mockups
===============

{% include images.html url="http://i.imgur.com/z9I50kq.png" description="Initial Mockup made on Pencil for Mac." %}

Implementation
==============

Before, we started writing any code, we came up with a final mockup for the User Management to be implemented.

After a long discussion over the IRC channel and the issue tracker about both, design and code, the implementation for the project started. The initial pull request simply split the content into two and displayed the 2 lists as discussed.

Arthur worked on implementing the AJAX (asynchronous) filtering and search whereas I work on the frontend and the interface design. We had a lot of contributions coming in from the community contributors which accelerated the application, before we were actually shipping it. Jan was always around about my doubts on the interface and interaction design.


Results
=======

This is how the current user management looks on ownCloud 7. This is one of shipped ownCloud applications.

{% include images.html url="../../../../../images/newusermanagement.png" description="User Management as in ownCloud 8." %}

Benefits
========

1. Apart from implementing the filter, this also started the trend of maintaining consistency between the ownCloud applications and the ownCloud core.
2. Based on the success of the applications, more core applications started shipping with content filters in the application navigation.


License
=======

ownCloud is a community project and is licensed under [AGPLv3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affero_General_Public_License) or later.

Links
=====

1. [Google Melange](https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/project/details/google/gsoc2013/raghunayyar/5673522948997120)
2. [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/owncloud/core/tree/master/settings)