---
layout: page
title:  "Google Summer of Code 2014"
description: "2-3 lines of the abstract should be here."
date-start: 2014-05-15
date-end:   2014-10-01
frontmatter: "gsoc2014"
categories: Projects
---

Abstract
========

**The Calendar application is one of the most used apps ownCloud has. The project proposes to rewrite the calendar application in angularJS in order to achieve a much better extensibility and maintainability. Combined with the JSON API currently on the rework branch, it will provide an rich and full-featured easy-to-use interface for the users.**

Collaborators
=============

1. **[Georg Ehrke](http://georgehrke.com)**

Feature Set
===========

Calendar is one of the most complicated applications for ownCloud in terms of its vast feature set. Some of the important features we thought about the Calendar application are as followed :-

1. **Creating / Updating / Deleting Calendars:** A user has the ability to create / update or delete calendars on the go. These calendars can be seggregated as a Todo, a Journal or an event.

2. **External Subscriptions**: The users can subscribe to external calendars. For example, if a user wants to subscribe to a particular calendar, say a gym schedule on boldybuilding.com, can just link the calendar on his ownCloud instance. The subscription will obviously are not editable locally, unlike calendars.

3. **An all new events editor**: A user has the ability to edit the calendar events through an all new events editor. The events editor has support for adding sttendees for the event, which can or can not be the part of the ownCloud instance. The editor also allows the users to add reminders for the events. Other features like, creating an all day / hour wise event, adding categories, descriptions, etc are also various additions to the editor.

4. **Import Calendars**: A user can import .ics files from other calendar applications and use it on the ownCloud instance.

Mockups
=======

###Ideation

{% include images.html url="../../../../../images/owncloudcalendarmockup2.png" description="Flow Chart for the ownCloud Calendar" %}

### Full Calendar View
{% include images.html url="../../../../../images/owncloudcalendarmockup.png" description="Full Calendar View which uses the ownCloud core standard UI for left and right content" %}

### Events Editor
{% include images.html url="../../../../../images/owncloudcalendarmockup3.png" description="The sectionwise split events dialog view, this is the heart of the application." %}


Development
===========

This is an open source project. While Georg works on the backend, I work on the Front-end (*HTML, CSS, JavaScript - angularJS, jQuery, GruntJS*) of the application. We both collaborate over design based on the users review of the currently used ownCloud Calendar application.

Link
====

1. [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/owncloud/calendar/tree/rework)

License
=======
ownCloud is a community project and is licensed under [AGPLv3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affero_General_Public_License) or later.